As a security analyst, you'll need to be
able to quickly access the relevant data
required to perform your duties.
Whether it's triaging alerts,
monitoring systems, or
analyzing log data during
incident investigations,
a SIEM is the tool for this job.
As a quick review, a SIEM is
an application that collects and
analyzes log data to monitor critical
activities in an organization.
It does this by collecting, analyzing, and
reporting on security data
from multiple sources.
Previously, you learned about the SIEM
process for data collection.
Let's revisit this process. First, SIEM
tools COLLECT AND PROCESS enormous
amounts of data generated by devices and
systems from all over an environment.
Not all data is the same.
As you already know,
devices generate data
in different formats.
This can be challenging because there is
no unified format to represent the data.
SIEM tools make it easy for
security analysts to read and
analyze data by NORMALIZING it.
Raw data gets processed, so
that it's formatted consistently and
only relevant event
information is included.
Finally, SIEM tools INDEX the data, so
it can be accessed through search.
All of the events across all the different
sources can be accessed with your
fingertips.
Isn't that useful?
SIEM tools make it easy
to quickly access and
analyze the data flows happening
across networks in an environment.
As a security analyst, you may
encounter different SIEM tools.
It's important that
you're able to adjust and
adapt to whichever tool your
organization ends up using.
With that in mind, let's explore some SIEM
tools currently used in the security
industry.
Splunk is a data analysis platform.
Splunk Enterprise Security provides
SIEM solutions that let you search,
analyze, and visualize security data.
First, it collects data from different
sources. That data gets processed and
stored in an index. Then, it can be
accessed in a variety of different ways,
like through search.
Chronicle is Google Cloud's SIEM,
which stores security data for
search, analysis, and visualization.
First, data gets forwarded to Chronicle.
This data then gets normalized, or cleaned
up, so it's easier to process and index.
Finally, the data becomes available
to be accessed through a search bar.
Next up, we'll explore how to
search on these SIEM platforms.